




The underlying  depression , rather than the effects of the drugs themselves,
may explain the increased risk of  heart attack  associated with taking
 antidepressants , suggests research in Heart. More than one in 10 older
people are prescribed antidepressants.    

The findings are based on anonymous prescribing supplied from 644 general
practices across the UK, on 60,000 patients who had had their first heart
attack between 1998 and 2001 and 360,000 randomly selected others, matched
for age and sex.    

Analysis indicated an increased risk of a first heart attack with either
the newer or older class of antidepressants within the first month of
prescription.    

Patients who had been prescribed the older class of tricyclic
antidepressants (TCAs) for the first time were twice as likely to have a
heart attack within the next seven days as patients who had not been
prescribed these drugs.    

And patients prescribed the newer class of selective  serotonin  reuptake
inhibitors (SSRIs) were over twice as likely to have a heart attack within
the next seven days.    

But the increased risks of a heart attack were much lower among patients
who took antidepressants for longer than a month. These risks disappeared
after taking account of the extent of existing cardiovascular disease and
depression, which was gleaned from looking at the prescription data before
and after the heart attack (known as self controlled analysis).    

The authors also failed to find any link with specific antidepressants or
with the class of drug, leading them to conclude that any increase in heart
attack risk is more likely to be linked to the underlying depression rather
than the drugs themselves.    

[General population based study of the impact of tricyclic and selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants on the risk of acute  
myocardial infarction Heart 2005; 91: 465-71]    

Click here to view the paper in full:   
 press.psprings.co.uk/heart/april/465_ht37457.pdf   


British Medical Association  
BMA House  
Tavistock Square  
London  
WC1H 9JP 